A short FAQ that will be extended as questions crop up


Q. When will classes start?

A. cat syllabus.txt


Q. What time are classes?

A. cat syllabus.txt


Q. Where are lecture notes posted?

A. Here on this repo!!


Q. Where are videos of the classes posted?

A. https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCorOOMDVMwveNDM87tICW3Q


Q. Will this course be focused on the types of problems that you will encounter
   during a coding interview?

A. Not directly. But, for better or worse, coding interviews (particularly for
   coveted internships) are tailored to the current collegiate system. And the
   way to figure out who the best students are of this college system is to ask
   questions about things like algorithms and data structures.

   Do knowledge of these things result in the best engineers? That's another
   debate entirely. But, in today's professional software development world, being
   able to speak the language of algorithms and evaluate solutions mathematically
   is definitely expected.

   In that way, I hope this course is helpful for all of us. This class of course
   becomes much much more valuable if you participate actively and do suggested
   assignments - just sitting and listening probably won't do too much for you!


Q. I'm not officially a part of this course, can I come? Or, I have a friend who
   want to come, can they?

A. I've kind of set a limit for the number of students for this course. I've done
   so in part to incentivize people to speak up about their interest in the course,
   but also to see if there would be TOO much interest for just me to handle.
   At this point, I think we're just about at the cap for the number I can handle.

   That being said, I'm not going to be turning anybody away. So, effectively, all
   are welcome.

   Of course, if more students show up, the slower the course will go / fewer
   questions will be able to be addressed / students will be able to contribute
   less individually. This is definitely true.

   Luckily, nobody will be forced to be here due to grades or anything like that.
   So, should some students not enjoy the course due to too many people being there,
   they will stop showing up and we'll have less people again.

   On that note, feel free to slack me at csummers to be officially added to the
   class slack channel :)


Q. Where can I ask more questions?

A. Feel free to slack me at csummers or come to the Moonlight meetings on Wednesdays
   at 9 pm to ask me in person! Or just, you know, ask me around the lab.
