Course Syllabus


Class Hours - 7:00 pm to 8:30 pm Mondays (some days will be shorter/longer, but should be roughly this long)


Dates - Jan 16th to Mar 27th


Textbook -     We will be following the book Algorithms by Sanjoy Dasgupta, Christos Papadimitriou and Umesh Vazirani.
               The textbook is not required to participate in the class, but contains additional problems and lots of
               quality pictures, so I recommend it!

               Google and wikipedia are definitely sufficient though (as I'm sure you already know).

Organization - This "class" will be pretty relaxed. I hope to be talking < 50% of the time, with the first few
               classes probably requiring more as we get into the swing of things.

               I haven't ever taught a course in this way before, so I will likely need your watchful eyes to keep
               track of time and to help bring us back on track should we get pulled off on a tangent for too long.

               It's also alright if you can't make it every week. I'll not be taking attendance or anything like
               that. You are expected to do the work necessary to catch up. We won't have time to cover old material
               during classes.

               I also know that people will be pulled away by other work and not be able to come for a few weeks.
               If that's the case, you're of course always welcome to come back! If you find it too hard to keep
               up due to having missed material, feel free to talk to me outside of class and I'll try to point
               you in the fastest direction to getting back on track.


Assignments -  There will be no required assignments. I will post interesting problems both from our textbook and
               elsewhere for you to work on should you want the additional practice. Some will be coding projects
               and others will be more math-related.

               Assignments will not be graded (I still have to find some time for 42 work...) but I'd be happy to
               chat with you about them!

               If you have any ideas for cool projects, feel free to share them in our slack channel or (even better)
               add them to this repo via a pull request!


Expectations - So there are no assignments, does that mean that you don't have to do anything? Of course not!
               The only way for this course to be successful (and for everybody to learn well) is if we push each
               other hard.

               I've set an ambitious schedule and I want people to get as much from the course as possible. If this
               becomes like a course at college - where you just show up and sit there as I talk at you - it will be
               a pretty awful experience for all of us. I need you to bring enthusiasm and a willingness to learn
               every week.

               This is exceptionally important because I am not a professor. I am not an expert. I'll be learning much
               of this material as I prepare for our classes each week. Because of this, my understanding will not be
               perfect and, should yours be better, you are welcome (i.e. expected) to teach us what you know.

               Luckily, we're at the best school in the world and everybody is here to learn. So I have complete
               faith that we'll all get a ton out of this course.


Weekly Schedule

Jan 16th - Prologue and Chapter 1: Algorithms with numbers

Jan 23rd - Chapter 2: Divide-and-conquer algorithms

Jan 30th - Chapter 3: Decompositions of graphs

Feb 6th - Chapter 4: Paths in graphs

Feb 13th - Chapter 5: Greedy algorithms

Feb 20th - Chapter 6: Dynamic programming

Feb 27th - Chapter 7: Linear programming and reductions

Mar 6th - Chapter 8: NP-complete problems

Mar 13th - Chapter 9: Coping with NP-completeness

Mar 20th - NO CLASS (I'll be gone that day :P)

Mar 27th - Chapter 10: Quantum algorithms


Contacting me (please no prank calls or spam emails)

Phone: 503-320-0439
Email: charliegsummers@gmail.com
Slack: csummers


Thanks to Vlad for helping with filming and video editing! Give him a hug when you see him next.

And I sincerely thank all of you for undertaking this project with me. I hope it will be fun!
